That actually strengthens the case for keeping the main EMF talk broad and accessible.

I would treat them as two completely different events:

Main EMF Talk

"An Internet for the Solar System"

Audience:

Hackers
Makers
Network engineers
Curious attendees
People who have never touched a radio

Focus:

Why infrastructure matters
GPS/Galileo and lunar PNT
ESA Moonlight
Why the Internet breaks in space
DTN as a concept
RADIANT as a practical amateur experiment

Very little protocol detail.

Very little amateur-radio jargon.

The goal is:

"Wow, I never thought about how the Internet would work beyond Earth."

---

AMSAT Village Session — 45 Minutes + Open Hack Time

"Building RADIANT: Amateur Delay-Tolerant Networking from Earth to Cislunar Space"

Audience (mixed — plan for this):

From the main talk:
  Software engineers who thought "I could help build that"
  Network engineers curious about DTN routing
  Makers who want to see real hardware
  Space enthusiasts who want more depth
  People who have never touched a radio but are intrigued

From the AMSAT Village:
  Satellite operators
  SDR developers
  Packet radio people
  CubeSat builders
  RF experimenters

The session must work for BOTH groups.

Don't assume amateur radio knowledge.
Don't assume networking ignorance.

Explain radio concepts briefly when they come up (KISS, TNC, 9600 baud).
Don't over-explain TCP, routing, or store-and-forward — the main talk covered that.

The tone is: "here's how we're actually building this, and here's how you can help."

---

Session Structure (45 minutes)

1. Welcome and Context (5 mins)

Acknowledge the mixed audience:

"Some of you are here because you saw the main talk and thought 'I want to know how that actually works.' Some of you live and breathe amateur radio and satellites. This session is for both of you."

Brief recap for newcomers (2 mins max):

The Internet breaks in space because of delay and disruption
DTN solves this with store-carry-forward
RADIANT is an amateur radio experiment to build and test this

Then set expectations:

"I'm going to show you the architecture, then we'll do two live demos — one simulating cislunar links, one over real radio hardware. After that, we'll open it up for hacking and discussion."

For the radio newcomers, promise:

"If I use a term you don't know, ask. There's no assumed knowledge here beyond 'I'm interested in networks.'"

2. RADIANT Architecture Deep Dive (10 mins)

Start with the "what" before the "how":

"We're building a system that can send a message from a ground station, through a relay satellite, to a lander on the Moon — using amateur radio and open-source software."

Position RADIANT in the bigger picture:

"In 2023, the Internet Society's Interplanetary Chapter — IPNSIG — published a framework for the Solar System Internet. Co-authored by Vint Cerf. Their recommendation: BPv7, LTP, and Contact Graph Routing as the basis for all communications beyond Earth. RADIANT implements exactly this architecture. We're not inventing a protocol stack; we're implementing the one that NASA, ESA, and the Internet Society have agreed on."

Then show the protocol stack:

┌─────────────────────────────────────┐
│   Application (bpsendfile, bping)   │
├─────────────────────────────────────┤
│   BPv7 (Bundle Protocol)            │  ← "Think of this as the envelope"
│   EID: dtn://callsign/service       │
├─────────────────────────────────────┤
│   LTP (Licklider Transmission)      │  ← "Reliable delivery over huge delays"
├─────────────────────────────────────┤
│   KISS (TNC Serial Framing)         │  ← "How we talk to the radio hardware"
├─────────────────────────────────────┤
│   USB Serial (TNC4)                 │  ← "A £100 modem"
├─────────────────────────────────────┤
│   G3RUH GFSK (9600 baud)            │  ← "The actual radio signal"
└─────────────────────────────────────┘

For the software people, explain:

BPv7 is like IP but for disrupted networks — bundles instead of packets
LTP is like TCP but designed for links where a round-trip takes minutes
KISS is just serial framing — bytes in, bytes out, no magic
The whole thing is open source, written in Go, C++, and Rust

Introduce Hardy (https://github.com/g4dpz/hardy):

Hardy is a modular Rust BPv7 implementation that I'm extending to support LTP.
It uses no_std core libraries — meaning it can run on bare-metal microcontrollers.
This makes it a candidate for actual flight software on a CubeSat.
"If you write Rust, this is where you can make a direct contribution to space hardware."

For the radio people, explain:

Why LTP over KISS directly (no AX.25) — AX.25 was designed for connected-mode links, DTN doesn't need that
Why callsign-embedded EIDs solve station identification without a separate beacon
  — The SSI report discusses BP identifier allocation (managed by IANA/SANA)
  — Amateur radio's existing callsign system is already globally unique and regulated
  — We've solved the "identifier governance" problem by leveraging what already exists
Why the system is DTN-engine-agnostic (HDTN, ION, µD3TN, Hardy)
  — HDTN for ground stations (high performance, C++)
  — Hardy for flight software (Rust, no_std, memory-safe, runs on microcontrollers)
  — The abstraction layer means you can swap engines via configuration
  — The SSI report emphasises interoperability between implementations — this is how we achieve it

Contact Graph Routing — for everyone:

"You know the satellite will be overhead at 14:32 tomorrow.
So you schedule the transmission now.
It's like a train timetable for data."

The "enforced openness" angle (this resonates with the EMF crowd):

Amateur radio regulations mean no encryption of user data
All protocols must be publicly documented
Everything we build is transparent and auditable by design
"This is a feature, not a limitation — it means anyone can inspect, verify, and contribute"

Link to the SSI security model:

The SSI report discusses BPSec — integrity and authenticity for bundles
For amateur radio, we use integrity protection (HMAC) without payload encryption
"We can prove who sent a bundle and that it hasn't been tampered with — we just can't hide what's inside it"
This aligns with the SSI report's recommendation: "authenticity of the bundle source can be provided by digital signatures" — we do exactly that
The report also notes that security policies should be transparent and published — amateur radio regulations already enforce this

3. Demo 1: Cislunar Simulation — Live (15 mins)

This is the centrepiece.

Setup:

Laptop running the 3-node HDTN simulation
Terminal windows showing all three nodes
Projector or large screen

The simulation:

Ground Station (Earth) → Lunar Orbiter (relay) → Lunar Lander
     nodeId=10              nodeId=20              nodeId=30

Live demonstration sequence:

a) Earth-Moon (1.3s one-way light time)

Send a file from Earth to the Lander:

  echo 'Hello Moon from EMF Camp!' > /tmp/hdtn-send/emf.dat
  bpsendfile --my-uri-eid=ipn:1.1 --dest-uri-eid=ipn:3.1 ...

Show:

The bundle leaving Earth
The 1.3-second propagation delay (real, via udp-delay-sim)
The bundle arriving at the orbiter relay
Store-and-forward at the relay
The bundle arriving at the lander
LTP acknowledgement returning 2.6 seconds later

Narrate what's happening at each stage. The audience can see the delay in real time.

b) Mars scenario (3-minute one-way)

Switch to Mars contact plan configuration.

Send a bundle and explain:

"This bundle is now in flight. It won't arrive for 3 minutes.
The sending node is responsible for it until the relay confirms receipt.
If we don't get an acknowledgement, it retransmits."

You don't need to wait the full 3 minutes — explain the principle, show the timer counting, then skip ahead to the received file.

c) Contact window demonstration

Show what happens when a contact window closes mid-transfer:

Bundle gets stored at the relay
Relay holds it until the next contact window opens
Then forwards it onward

This demonstrates the "postal service" model in action.

4. Demo 2: Radio Integration — Live or Prepared (10 mins)

Option A: Live RF demo (if equipment available)

Equipment:

Two laptops
Two Mobilinkd TNC4 units
Two handheld radios (Baofeng/FT-817) on a simplex frequency
Short antenna (rubber duck is fine indoors)

Show:

Send a DTN bundle from laptop A → TNC → radio → radio → TNC → laptop B
The KISS framing on the wire
The callsign appearing in the bundle metadata
The bundle arriving at the destination

This proves it works over real RF, not just simulation.

Option B: Pre-recorded RF demo (safer for timing)

Screen recording of the above, with audio of the 9600 baud modem tones.

Play the recording and narrate:

"This is what 9600 baud G3RUH sounds like"
"Here's the KISS frame being sent to the TNC"
"And here's the bundle arriving at the other end"

Even the audio of the modem tones is compelling for this audience.

Option C: Loopback with real TNC hardware

If RF is impractical in the venue:

Connect two TNCs back-to-back via audio cable
Same demo without radiating
Still shows the real hardware path

5. Roadmap and What's Next (5 mins)

The SSI report describes an evolution:

Today: Space agency point-to-point links
Transitional: Commercial and amateur networks emerge alongside agency backbones
Future: Multiple interconnected networks, peering like ISPs on Earth

RADIANT sits in the "transitional" phase — we're building an amateur SSI node before the commercial ones exist. The report calls for multistakeholder governance. Amateur radio operators are a stakeholder. RADIANT is how we earn our seat at that table.

Phase 1 — Terrestrial Radio (now)
  DTN over amateur packet radio links
  What we've demonstrated today

Phase 1.5 — QO-100
  DTN via geostationary amateur satellite (Es'hail-2)
  2.4 GHz up / 10 GHz down
  Real 240ms GEO delay
  "Who here has a QO-100 station?"

Phase 2 — CubeSat Engineering Model
  Flight-representative hardware on the ground
  STM32U585 + SDR
  µD3TN or Hardy as flight software
  Hardy is the Rust option — no_std, memory-safe, LTP support being added now
  "This is where the code you write today could end up in orbit"

Phase 3 — LEO DTN Payload
  First amateur DTN node in orbit
  437 MHz UHF
  Store-and-forward from orbit

Phase 4 — Cislunar DTN Node
  Amateur relay near the Moon
  S-band 500 bps
  The long-term goal
  The SSI report: "The infrastructure built in cislunar will become the scaffold for humans and robots to extend even farther"

Show the multi-node contact graph:

Multiple ground stations
LEO satellite passes
GEO backbone via QO-100
Cislunar link

The SSI vision: a "network of networks" in space.
RADIANT could be one of those networks — an amateur DTN network that peers with agency networks via standard BP/LTP.
Like early ISPs peering with university networks in the 1990s.

---

Open Hack Session (after the 45-minute talk)

This is where the real recruitment happens.

Format: Informal, no fixed end time. People come and go.

Activities:

a) "Run a node" workshop

Bring 2-3 Raspberry Pis pre-configured with HDTN
Let people send bundles between them
Provide a one-page quickstart guide
QR code to the GitHub repo

b) Hands-on hardware

Mobilinkd TNC4 units people can handle
Show the KISS framing on an oscilloscope or logic analyser
Let people plug in and send a bundle

c) Architecture walkthrough

Print or display the system architecture diagram
Walk interested people through the code structure
Show the Go orchestrator, the C++ KISS CLA plugin, the configs

Hardy deep-dive for Rust developers:

Show the Hardy repo (https://github.com/g4dpz/hardy)
Explain the no_std architecture — core libraries compile for bare metal
Walk through the LTP implementation work in progress
Show how it targets STM32U585 (the CubeSat flight processor)
"This is real flight software. If you contribute here, your code could orbit Earth."

Good first issues for Rust contributors:
  LTP session management
  KISS framing integration
  Bundle serialisation optimisation
  no_std testing on embedded targets

d) Recruitment board

Physical sign-up sheet or digital form (QR code).

Explicitly list roles for BOTH audiences:

Software people:
  "I can write Go"
  "I can write C++"
  "I can write Rust" (Hardy — flight software, LTP, no_std)
  "I can help with CI/CD and testing"
  "I can build a web dashboard"
  "I want to work on the contact graph routing"
  "I want to contribute but don't know where to start"

Radio/hardware people:
  "I have a QO-100 station"
  "I have SDR experience"
  "I have CubeSat experience"
  "I can run a ground station node"
  "I can help with RF design"
  "I have a ham licence and want to get involved"

No licence required for most contributions:
  "You don't need a radio licence to write code, build simulations, or design protocols. You only need one to transmit."

Capture names, callsigns (if any), email addresses, GitHub handles.

e) Discussion topics to seed

"Should we keep AX.25 or go pure KISS?"
"What's the minimum viable QO-100 ground station for DTN?"
"How do we handle authentication without encryption?" (link to BPSec and the SSI security model)
"What would you build on top of a delay-tolerant network?"
  — Lunar BBS?
  — Sensor networks?
  — DTN messaging app?
  — Space weather data relay?
"How should amateur DTN nodes peer with agency networks?" (the SSI report's interconnection model)
"What governance model should an amateur SSI network use?" (multistakeholder, open standards, transparent policies)
"How do we handle time synchronisation for contact plans across multiple ground stations?" (the SSI report's time standards discussion)

f) Lightning talks (if time/interest)

Offer 5-minute slots for anyone who's done related work:

Packet radio operators
LoRa mesh experimenters
Satellite ground station builders
Anyone who's played with HDTN or ION

---

Equipment Checklist

For the talk:

[ ] Laptop with HDTN simulation pre-configured and tested
[ ] Backup laptop or USB stick with simulation
[ ] HDMI/USB-C adapter for projector
[ ] Pre-recorded demo videos as backup (in case live demo fails)
[ ] Slide deck (if using any slides for the architecture section)

For Demo 2 (RF):

[ ] 2x Mobilinkd TNC4
[ ] 2x Handheld radio (programmed to agreed simplex frequency)
[ ] 2x USB cables
[ ] 2x Laptops with HDTN + KISS CLA
[ ] Audio patch cable (for loopback fallback)
[ ] Short rubber duck antennas

For the hack session:

[ ] 2-3x Raspberry Pi with HDTN pre-installed
[ ] Ethernet switch or WiFi AP for local network
[ ] Power strips
[ ] Printed one-page quickstart guides (20 copies)
[ ] QR code cards (GitHub, website, sign-up form)
[ ] Sign-up sheet / tablet with form
[ ] Whiteboard or flip chart for architecture diagrams

---

Timing and Scheduling

Schedule the village session the day AFTER the main talk.

Reasoning:

People inspired by the main talk have time to find you
Word of mouth spreads overnight
The AMSAT Village crowd will already know about it

Ideal slot: afternoon or early evening.

Evening works well because:

People are more relaxed
Willing to stay for discussion
The hack session can run into the night naturally

---

Cross-promotion

In the main talk (slide 22):

"If you're interested in the amateur-radio side of this, come find us at the AMSAT Village tomorrow — we'll be running live demonstrations and a hack session where you can send your own DTN bundles."

In the AMSAT Village schedule:

"Following on from 'An Internet for the Solar System' in the main programme — this session goes deep on the engineering, with live demos of delay-tolerant networking over simulated cislunar links and real amateur radio hardware."

On the AMSAT Village whiteboard:

Time, location, "bring a laptop if you want to run a node"

---

Success Criteria

The session is a success if:

1. At least 5 people sign up to contribute in some capacity
2. Someone without a radio licence asks "how do I get involved?"
3. Someone asks "can I run a node from home?"
4. The live demo works without crashing (have backups!)
5. At least one good technical discussion happens organically
6. Someone with QO-100 experience offers to help with Phase 1.5
7. People are still hanging around the hack session an hour after the talk ends
8. A software person and a radio person start talking to each other about the project

---

Pattern: Inspire in the talk, recruit in the village.

The main talk attracts people who are intrigued by the idea.

The AMSAT Village session is where the genuinely interested technical audience self-selects and comes to talk to you.

That's a pattern that works very well at EMF.

---

Key References

Solar System Internet:

- IPNSIG, "Solar System Internet Architecture and Governance", September 2023
  Co-authored by Vint Cerf, Scott Burleigh, Scott Pace, et al.
  https://www.ipnsig.org/
  Key points: BPv7+LTP recommended, multistakeholder governance, network-of-networks vision,
  evolutionary model (agency → public-private → commercial), identifier allocation, security architecture

Standards:

- RFC 9171 — Bundle Protocol Version 7 (BPv7)
- RFC 5326 — Licklider Transmission Protocol (LTP)
- RFC 9172 — Bundle Protocol Security (BPSec)
- CCSDS 730.1-G-1 — Solar System Internetwork Architecture
- CCSDS 734.1-B-1 — Licklider Transmission Protocol (space profile)

NASA/ESA programmes:

- LunaNet Interoperability Specification (NASA/TP-20210021073/Rev.4)
- NASA HDTN — https://github.com/nasa/HDTN
- ESA Moonlight — https://www.esa.int/Applications/Connectivity_and_Secure_Communications/Moonlight
- KPLO (Korea Pathfinder Lunar Orbiter) — BP flying at the Moon today

RADIANT:

- Website: https://radiant.amsat-uk.org
- Source: https://github.com/g4dpz/cislunar_proposal
- Hardy (Rust BPv7 + LTP): https://github.com/g4dpz/hardy

Governance and coordination:

- IPNSIG (Internet Society Interplanetary Chapter): https://www.ipnsig.org/
- CCSDS (Consultative Committee for Space Data Systems): https://public.ccsds.org/
- IETF DTN Working Group: https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/dtn/about/
- IETF TVR Working Group (Time-Variant Routing): https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/tvr/about/
- IOAG (Interagency Operations Advisory Group): https://www.ioag.org/
- SANA (Space Assigned Numbers Authority): https://sanaregistry.org/
